Alright, so let's talk now about
Any and All. So the names of these
two functions pretty much describe what they
do. All, that checks to see if the items
in an iterable are true and Any, by
contrast, checks to see if any of them
are. Both functions take an iterable
and return either true or false, depending on
the values in the iterable. So let's have
a look at some examples, to clarify their
behavior and also see a couple of things
to be wary of when you're using them.
Now we're going to start by using a
simple list for our iterable and I'm going to
create a new Python file to do that,
so let's do that. I'm going to create the
file and call it anyall. Alright, so
let's start typing now, so on line 1,
entries equals left and right square
braces. It's going to be 1, 2, 3,
4, 5 separated by commas. On the
first, on line three, we're going to print
parentheses all colon left and right
curly braces ending double quote comma
format and in parentheses, all parenthesis
entries, and the closing parenthesis. On
the next line, we're going to do the same
but for Any, so in double quotes after
the print, any colon then our left and
right curly braces closing double quote
dot format and left parenthesis,
any, left parenthesis entries and the closing
right parenthesis. And I'm going
to actually change this. What
I'm going to do is, I'm gonna run it first, so let's do that.
So you can see any and all have both
returned true here, so basically, both
functions are taking an iterable
and returning either true or false, depending
on the values in the iterable. And again
in this case, both functions, as you can
see in the run pane, are returning true.
Now the reason that all is returning
true is because all the items in the
list of true values, and any value
returns true because at least one of
them is. Now I'm going to review what we
mean by a true value in a moment, but firstly
though, let's just
see another example. On line 6
I'm going to start by typing print
parenthesis, in double quotes Iterable,
with a single quote False closing single
quote value, so that's our heading on
that line. Then we're going to do, on
line 7, entries with, underscore with
that is, underscore zero is equal to, then
in left and right square braces 1, 2
0, 4, 5 and let's just take a
copy of any, all and any. Paste it in
and then we'll just change, so it's
actually printing out the values
from our second entry there. Entries with zero,
entries with zero. What I might do
is, just take the opportunity here to move
the run window to the right hand side, so
we can see the output a little bit
better and now you've seen that code,
or typed that code in, rather, let's actually
run it. And you can see there, Iterable
with a False value, all is returning
False there but any is returning True.
So contrasting that to the previous
example, where all returned True. So any
still returning True here in this second
example, and it's basically asking, does
the list contain any true items?
Alright, so now that we've seen that,
so what do we mean when we say true items
or true values? What do we mean by that?
Well if you can recall, way back early on
in the course, I showed you how Python
interprets some values as false
and everything else as true. So what I'm
going to do is paste that code back in,
and we'll run it again just to refresh
your memory there. I'm going to do that
on line 12,
and I'll just close the run window for
now, and there's the example. You can see
the code that I've pasted in there.
Now I've used the bool function to convert
the value to true or false, as Python
sees it. By printing the result of
calling bool for each of the items, we
can confirm that Python hopefully does
see them as false. Everything else though,
will be evaluated as true if we use
it as a condition but let's just tell run
this example first.
You can see down here, we're getting the
examples here, values interpreted as
False in Python. False is false, None
is false, 0 is false, 0.0 is false, an empty
list is false,
empty tuple false, empty string false,
an empty string with double quotes is
termed false and entry mapping
also false. Now that's pretty clear now, but cos
we've used the bool function, and by
printing the result of calling bool for
each of these items, as I mentioned, we're
confirming that Python does in fact see
them as false. Everything else however,
will be evaluated as true if we use it
as a condition. A quick example should
help with that, so let's just type that
in. Okay, okay so we're going to start on
line 25, print 2 parentheses double
quotes, an equal in it, times 80, so we
get a nice little heading there and then
we're going to do name equals double
quotes, two double quotes, so we're going to
start with an empty string, if name colon.
On the next line, then print Hello
left and right curly braces closing double
quote dot format name. Then we're gonna have an
else on the next line, else colon then
print Welcome, person with no name, double
quotes closing parenthesis. So when we're
testing name on line 27, it evaluates to
false and we should get the welcome
message printed out. So let's actually run
that and confirm that is the case.
You can see down here in the output, or
at the right hand side of the screen,
Welcome, person with no name, and that's
consistent with the fact that an empty
string higher up on the run
window output there, is also returning false,
and if we change that to actually put a name
on line 26 instead of the empty string
and run it again, this time we're getting
Hello Tim because it's no longer being
evaluated as false. In fact name is now
true because it has got some content.
It's not empty, in other words. So
closing now the run pane again,
and going back to our code at the top there,
our entries with zero list, it
should now be obvious as to why all return
false. Zero was interpreted as
false, so all the items in the
list aren't true. Alright, so that's all and any.
They both take an Iterable and can be
very useful to check, or for checking the
items in the iterable for consistency.
This becomes even more useful when we
combine them with a comprehension
or generate our expression, which is why
we've included them in this section on
comprehensions. If you recall,
I did mention
that there's a couple of things to be wary of.
The main one is how all behaves with an
empty iterable. So I'm going to create a
new file for this just to help clarify.
So New, Python file, and we'll call
this one allgotcha, and I'm gonna paste
in these three lines from the previous
example we we're working on,
previous file. Alright, so let's run
that, and again we can see there, on the
right-hand side, both the functions are
returning true as we saw earlier in the
video, but what happens if the iterable
is empty? Let's change that to making an
empty list on line 1. Before I run the
program though, have a think about what
you'd expect to happen. What would you
expect to happen, given that now the list
is empty. So let's now run this and
you can see that any behaves as expected
and returns false, and that makes sense
because the list doesn't contain any
items that could be true. Now where you
may have expected a different
result though, is all. As you can see there
in the output, all is returning true. Now
that's the documented behavior so it's
not a bug, but I wouldn't have expected
that result, and that's why I've included
this because it's something that can
catch you out. If there's a possibility
that your list, or whatever iterable
you're checking can be empty, then you
need to test for that as well. Now we've
just seen that an empty list evaluates
as false in a boolean expression, so you
can generally, write something
like this; so I'm going to just
close down this run window so we get more
output, but you can do something like, on
line 3, if entries then we go print
all, else
print false in double quotes. Then on the
next line, we're going to print
the result of calling any. If you run that
now, we're getting false returned in both
scenarios, which is now more correct. So
this would be a better way of actually
writing a code there, because we're now
using the fact that conditional if
is evaluating the empty list as false in a
boolean expression. Another thing to be aware
of is combining the check for an empty
list in a single boolean expression.
So you might be tempted to do
something along these lines;
result equals entries and all
parentheses entries print result. So if
we run that, so as you can see, we get
the result printing as an empty list, not
false as we wanted. So in this case, we
have to be explicit. So we would change
that to result equals bool, call to bool,
entries and all entries, like so. If we
run that, we're now correctly getting
false showing. Basically, now behaves as
we want. So there you go, two gotchas for
the price of one. I'll go over some more
examples of any and all in a later video.
We're going to need some data for the
examples, and we really don't want to
spend a lot of time typing it all in, so in
the resources section for this video,
you'll find the file data.py. Download
that file and place it in your project
directory, and we'll make use of that in
the next video. I won't be
using comprehensions in the next video.
Those examples for comprehensions
will be in the video after that. The next
one, though, is a short one to introduce
named tuples. So I'll see you in the
next video.